# FlappyTurd -- by Melody Cao and Kevin Gu for CS50 Final Project Fall 2022

Ever heard of the once-viral game “Flappy Bird” developed in 2014 by video game programmer Dong Nguyen? In this hit game, you are a small, yellow bird who perpetually flaps through pairs of mario-esque pipes in order to survive. Unfortunately, this app was only available on the Apple app store for a few months as the designer considered the game to be too addictive, causing users to spend too much time on the game. 

However, as avid Flappy Bird enthusiasts, we’ve always loved the game. So as a nostalgic token of remembrance and an opportunity to learn and code a game using Swift, a language not taught in the CS50 course, we created a spin-off of the original game. Our version is coined “Flappy Turd.” In our game, however, you are not a flappy bird, but rather (as the name suggests), a little poo, attempting to make it through the gaps between pairs of pipes. 

Some features of our game include, once you’ve hit the green start button, the game will begin, sending you off on your flappy adventure. The pipes will spawn randomly (every 2.5 seconds), allowing you to continue through the game infinitely as long as your poo doesn’t come into contact with a pipe or the ground. If you do happen to touch a pipe, the game will stop and you will be given the option to restart! Some other add-ins include a flashing screen once the game is over and various movements in our graphics (e.g. the clouds move slower than the ground, creating a sense of distance). Although we had to make alterations to our original design concept, the features we were able to include in our program proved to be a fun challenge, especially since we’ve had no prior experience coding in Swift.

In this stage of development, to run this program, you will need an Apple Mac running on iOS 13 and XCode IDE (available on the App Store). After downloading our code files, import them into your XCode application. Once everything has loaded, click the “play” triangle on the top left corner of the navigation bar. This will allow you to build the project based on the code we’ve created. Once the build is successful, you, as the player, will be able to access the source code and play our game!
